Docs/push notifications (#2611)
esl/MongooseIM: doc/user-guide/push-notifications/Push-notifications-client-side.md

> ## Using push notifications on client side

Reviewer: I highly recommend to restructure the document:
* first provide the diagram and description of the XEP compliant PubSub based configuration.
* then provide the PubSub less diagram and describe the difference only.

Reviewer: or at least avoid 2 big diagrams followed one by one right at the beginning of the document.

Service Provider's manual to see how to get this token. For example,
[here](https://firebase.google.com/docs/cloud-messaging/android/client) you can learn about setting
up _FCM_ on _Android_ platform and
[here](https://developer.apple.com/library/content/documentation/NetworkingInternet/Conceptual/RemoteNotificationsPG/HandlingRemoteNotifications.html#/apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40008194-CH6-SW1)
you can learn about setting up _APNS_ on _iOS_ platform.

After this step, your application shall be able to receive _FCM_ or _APNS_ token - it will be
required in the next step of this tutorial.

### Setting up an XMPP `pubsub` node

This step is specific to the pubsub-full push configuration that you chose for your MongooseIM
server. If you're running a pubsub-less configuration, skip to [this point](#enabling-push-notifications).

#### Creating a new push node
In this example `mypubsub.com` is a domain of the MongooseIM server that has [mod_pubsub][] enabled
with the `push` node support.  The client sends the following stanza to the server:

```xml
<iq type='set'
    to='pubsub.mypubsub.com'
    id='create1'>
  <pubsub xmlns='http://jabber.org/protocol/pubsub'>

>     <create node='punsub_node_for_my_private_iphone' type='push'/>

Reviewer 2: This is just a bad pun. I know it would work (and is probably not a real pun) and it was used throughout this file but I just noticed it. `punsub`, really?

Author: It was there already, I just copied it as it was, also got confused by that "`punsub`", and then realised it is all consistently written everywhere, so 🤷‍♂ 😂

Author: It was there already, I just copied it as it was, also got confused by that "`punsub`", and then realised it is all consistently written everywhere, so 🤷‍♂ 😂

			<affiliation jid='mychat.com' affiliation='publish-only'/>
		</affiliations>
	</pubsub>
</iq>
```

### Enabling push notifications

The next and the last step is to enable push notifications on the server that handles your messages
(and has [mod_event_pusher_push][] enabled).
Let's assume this server is available under the domain `mychat.com`.

To enable push notifications in the simplest configuration, just send the following stanza:

```xml
<iq type='set' id='x43'>
  <enable xmlns='urn:xmpp:push:0' jid='pubsub.mypubsub.com' node='punsub_node_for_my_private_iphone'>
    <x xmlns='jabber:x:data' type='submit'>
      <field var='FORM_TYPE'><value>http://jabber.org/protocol/pubsub#publish-options</value></field>
      <field var='service'><value>apns</value></field>
      <field var='device_id'><value>your_pns_device_token</value></field>
      <field var='silent'><value>false</value></field>
      <field var='topic'><value>some_apns_topic</value></field>
      <field var='priority'><value>some_priority</value></field>
    </x>
  </enable>
</iq>
```

We have now enabled push notifications to be send to the `pubsub.mypubsub.com` domain

> on the node `punsub_node_for_my_private_iphone` created previously.

Reviewer: mention here that node name must be unique for the device. so for the PubSub-less setup the device token received from FCM/APNS can be used to generate (or mb even as is) the unique name

Author: @DenysGonchar what do you think about saying that in line 67, where we already mention that the node should be unique to the device?

Reviewer: no, it's not good idea. there a statement above:
` If you're running a PubSub-less configuration, skip to this point`
and the line 67 is bypassed!

## Using push notifications on the client side

There are just a few things the XMPP client application needs to receive the push notifications.
One picture is worth a thousand words, hence, here you have two diagrams to follow:

#### PubSub-full:

 ![](pubsub_full_push_notifications_example_message_flow.png)

#### PubSub-less:

>  ![](pubsub_less_push_notifications_example_message_flow.png)

Reviewer 3: This diagram, even though the source image is of the same size as the one above, is rendered as a much bigger. This makes an impression (at least for me) that the PubSub-less configuration is more difficult then PubSub-full.

## Using push notifications on the client side

There are just a few things the XMPP client application needs to receive the push notifications.

> Depending on whether you plan to use PubSub-full or PubSub-less configuration some of the steps may be unnecessary.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Depending on whether you plan to use PubSub-full or PubSub-less configuration, some of the steps may be unnecessary.
```

        </field>
      </x>
    </configure>
  </pubsub>
</iq>
```

The `pubsub.mypubsub.com` will be used as a gateway for all notifications
and will pass them through to the APNS and/or FCM.

The most important and only difference from the standard node creation
is the `type='push'` part of the `create` element.
According to [XEP-0357](https://xmpp.org/extensions/xep-0357.html#enabling), a PubSub node is
required to route the push notification mechanism. This implies you need a node that will handle
your push notifications, hence we create a node called `punsub_node_for_my_private_iphone`.
This node should be unique to the device and you may reuse nodes already created this way.
The token obtained from _APNS_ or _FCM_ is a good option to ensure this uniqueness,
by either using it directly or within some custom node name generation.
It is also important from the security perspective to configure the node with:

* `access_model` set to `whitelist` so only affiliated users can access the node.
* `publish_model` set to `publishers` so only users with `publisher` or `publisher_only` role
can publish notifications.

#### Adding the server's JID to allowed publishers

> Push notifications to the push node are addressed from your server JID.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Push notifications to the push node are addressed from your server's JID.
```
?

The next and the last step is to enable push notifications on the server that handles your messages
(and has [mod_event_pusher_push][] enabled).
Let's assume this server is available under the domain `mychat.com`.

To enable push notifications in the simplest configuration, just send the following stanza:

```xml
<iq type='set' id='x43'>
  <enable xmlns='urn:xmpp:push:0' jid='pubsub.mypubsub.com' node='punsub_node_for_my_private_iphone'>
    <x xmlns='jabber:x:data' type='submit'>
      <field var='FORM_TYPE'><value>http://jabber.org/protocol/pubsub#publish-options</value></field>
      <field var='service'><value>apns</value></field>
      <field var='device_id'><value>your_pns_device_token</value></field>
      <field var='silent'><value>false</value></field>
      <field var='topic'><value>some_apns_topic</value></field>
      <field var='priority'><value>some_priority</value></field>
    </x>
  </enable>
</iq>
```

We have now enabled push notifications to be send to the `pubsub.mypubsub.com` domain
on the node `punsub_node_for_my_private_iphone` created previously.
In `publish-options` we have passed the service name we are using (`apns` or `fcm`)

> and the device token (here: `your_pns_device_token`) that you received from you push notification

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
and the device token (here: `your_pns_device_token`) that you received from your push notification
```

service provider (as described in [Registering with Push Service provider](#registering-with-a-push-service-provider)).
Those two options are the only ones required, but there are some others that are optional:

  * `mode` - which may be either `prod` or `dev` (default to `prod`). Decides which connection pool
    type on [MongoosePush][] shall be used. This may be used when _APNS_ on [MongoosePush][] is
    configured to work with both production and development certificate.
  * `click_action` - action to perform when notification is clicked on the device. `activity` on
    _Android_ and `category` on _iOS_. Please refer to your platform / push notification service
    provider for more info.
  * `topic` - currently only used with _APNS_. The value is passed to _APNS_ as `topic` header.  For
    more information please refer to _APNS_ documentation.

>   * `silent` - if set to `true`, all notifications will be "silent". This means that only data

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  * `silent` - if set to `true`, all notifications will be "silent". This means that only the data
```

>     payload will be send to push notifications provider with no notification. The data payload will

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    payload will be send to the push notifications provider with no notification. The data payload will
```

    contain all notification fields as defined in [XEP-0357].
  * `priority` — which may be either `normal` or `high`, and if not given, defaults to `normal`.
    This value will set the push notification priority. Please refer to FCM / APNS documentation for
    more details on those values.

### Disabling push notifications

Disabling push notifications is very simple. Just send the following stanza to your XMPP chat server:

```xml
<iq type='set' id='x44'>
  <disable xmlns='urn:xmpp:push:0' jid='pubsub.mypubsub.com' node='punsub_node_for_my_private_iphone'/>
</iq>
```

You may skip the `node='punsub_node_for_my_private_iphone'` to globally disable push notifications
on all nodes that are registered with your `JID`.
This may be used to disable push notifications on all your devices.

### Communication overview

> One picture is worth a thousand words, hence, here you have two diagrams

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
One picture is worth a thousand words, so here are two diagrams
```

> to show the typical communication when using push notifications:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
showing the typical communication when using push notifications:
```
